The bulk of my web application is created via the Flask framework and Python, with the webpages themselves created through individual .html files and styed via CSS. Starting with the registration and login features, I created a SQL table called 'users', which stores the username and hashed passwords and a designated id for each user. Logging in then initiates a browsing session from the user's id. Upon logging in, the profile form is created with Javascript, which allows the user to navigate through the form's individual sections and prompts them to complete all fields. The form inputs are then stored in different SQL tables based on categories such as 'entertainment', 'interests', and 'contact'.

Upon completing the form, the user will then be allowed to access other features of the website. Starting with the profile feature, accessing the page will load the user's profile, which uses Javascript to create tabs for the different categories. Jinja, Flask, and Python work together to retrieve the user's information from the SQL tables and load them onto the profile page.

Although the profile contains a default profile picture, users are able to upload their own profile picture via the Settings page. Python retrieves the file input from the page and downloads it to the server, into the directory called '/profilepics.' The name of the image file is also stored in the 'profile' SQL table so that they can later queried to determine which image to display on the user's profile. The Settings page also allows users to update their profile bio, which is stored in the 'profile' table, and later queried and displayed on the user's profile.

One of the main features of my web application is the ability to match a user with other users. This feature involves a Python function that queries the relevant SQL tables for each user and increments a counter for each shared entry, determining the top three users with the most shared entries and displaying them on the page. Users can save the profile to view later, which stores their id and the other user's id in a 'saved_profile' table. The Saved Profiles page displays a list of these saved profiles by querying the table. Removing users from the list involves deleting that user's id from the table.